In this lesson, we will create a timer, initialize it to BeginPlay. It
will work for us every N seconds and for each time the timer is triggered, the
color of our material will change. Let's do a little prep work before creating the timer.
In the GeometryData structure, let's create a new float variable. Let's call it TimerRate.
This variable will be responsible for the frequency of our timer. TimerRate will be
measured in seconds. Add an uproperty macro on top of the variable, expose it in editor.
Next, we create a timer descriptor - a variable
that will uniquely identify our timer.
This variable is of type FTimerHandle. Let's call it TimerHandle. Using this descriptor,
we will have access to the timer - we can pause it, or stop it, for example.
We create the OnTimerFired function. This function will be called every time
the timer fires. We also create the body of the function in a .cpp file.
The last preparatory moment. In the .cpp file at the top, add a header file
called TimerManager. Let's go to the BeginPlay function.
and at the very bottom we write GetWorldTimerManger.
This function returns an object called the timer manager.
We'll use the SetTimer function of the timer manager object. This function will initialize our timer for us
. The first argument to the function is a reference to the timer handle.
We pass our TimerHandle variable there.
The second argument is a pointer to the object on which we want to call the function every time
the timer fires. We will be calling the function of our actor, so we specify this.
This in C ++ means a pointer to the current object. The third argument is a reference to a function
that will be called every time the timer fires.
We are specifying our OnTimerFired function.
The fourth argument is the frequency of the
timer in seconds. We'll use a variable from GeometryData called TimerRate.
And the last argument. It means timer loop or not. Let's set it to true, if we
set it to false, then the timer would work once and stop. For some of you,
this construction may seem complicated in terms of syntax. Under the lecture, I will leave a link
to function binding in C ++. You can read about it yourself. In simple terms,
the timer will call the function of our object when the specified number of seconds have passed.
Go to the OnTimerFired function and program the material color change in it.
For this we will use the already existing SetColor function. Let's pass the NewColor variable there
and create this color randomly. We create this variable. It will be of type FLinearColor.
It is very easy to generate a random color in the unreal engine. Everything has already been programmed for us. We just
call the static FLinearColor function called MakeRandomColor.
Let's also print the generated color to the console.
FLinearColor (like most unreal engine types) has a ToString function, which we will
use when displaying our color. Let's consider a small point. Our SetColor function
has a call to CreateAndSetMaterialInstanceDynamic. We can safely call it as many times as we want.
Let's fall inside, press F12. First, this function checks if the dynamic material already exists
, if it exists, it simply returns a pointer to it.
That is, there is no memory leak in our timer call to SetColor. The first call to the SetColor
function will create the dynamic material, and subsequent calls will use a
pointer to it. So we're ready to see what we've got. Launch editor.
Let's remove one actor from the scene so as not to get confused where whose color is.
Go to the details panel of the remaining actor and let's change the TimerRate. Let's put one second.
We start.
Our code works. The actor changes color every second and this color is logged to the output log.
Let's stop the timer after it has run N times.
Let's create two additional class members.
The first term is a constant. It will be responsible for the number of times
our timer needs to run before we stop it.
And the second is the counter of our timer operations. Let's call it TimerCount and set the value to zero.
In the OnTimerFired function, check the condition that TimerCount is less than the
maximum number of timer fires. Also add the TimerCount prefix increment right away.
Under this condition, we will change the color of our material, so we will transfer all the code to the if block.
And additionally we will log TimerCount.
If the value of the TimerCount variable becomes larger than the MaxTimerCount value,
then we will stop our timer. To do this, we will also use the global timer manager
and call its function, which is called ClearTimer, which
takes a timer descriptor - TimerHandle.
Let's also add a timer stop to the log.
We launch the editor.
Press the play button and look in the log.
After five times, the timer stopped and the color does not change anymore.